.TH 3proxy_crypt "8" "May 2026" "3proxy 0.9" "Universal proxy server"
.SH NAME
.B 3proxy_crypt
\- utility to generate encrypted passwords for 3proxy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B 3proxy_crypt
.I password
.br
.B 3proxy_crypt
.I salt password
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B 3proxy_crypt
is a utility to generate encrypted password hashes for use with 3proxy
configuration. Encrypted passwords allow the system to avoid storing
passwords in cleartext in configuration files.
.PP
When invoked with a single argument, it produces an NT password hash
(MD4-based, suitable for NTLM authentication). The output is prefixed with
.BR NT: .
.PP
When invoked with two arguments (salt and password), it produces a BLAKE2b
password hash. The salt length is limited to 64 characters. The output is
prefixed with
.BR CR: .
.PP
The resulting hash can be used in the 3proxy configuration file with the
.B users
directive instead of a cleartext password.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I password
Cleartext password to encrypt.
.TP
.I salt
Salt string for BLAKE2b hashing (max 64 characters).
.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
Generate NT password hash:
.RS
3proxy_crypt MySecretPassword
.RE
.TP
Result:
.RS
NT:3F7E6D8D96E8E7A9B0C1D2E3F4A5B6C7
.RE
.TP
Generate BLAKE2b password hash with salt:
.RS
3proxy_crypt MySalt MySecretPassword
.RE
.TP
Result:
.RS
CR:$3$MySalt$...
.RE
.TP
Using in 3proxy.cfg:
.RS
users user1:CR:$3$MySalt$...
.RE
.SH NOTES
The NT hash uses the RSA MD4 Message-Digest Algorithm. The BLAKE2b hash
uses the BLAKE2 cryptographic hash function.
.PP
When a password hash is prefixed with
.B NT:
or
.BR CR: ,
3proxy uses the corresponding algorithm to verify passwords instead of
comparing cleartext strings.
.SH BUGS
Report all bugs to
.BR 3proxy@3proxy.org
.SH SEE ALSO
3proxy(8), 3proxy.cfg(5),
.br
https://3proxy.org/
.SH AUTHORS
3proxy is designed by Vladimir Dubrovin <vlad@3proxy.org>
