.TH ftppr "8" "January 2019" "3proxy 0.9" "Universal proxy server"
.SH NAME
.B ftppr
\- FTP proxy gateway service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "ftppr " [ -d ]
.IB \fR[ -l \fR[ \fR[ @ \fR] logfile \fR]]
.IB \fR[ -p port\fR]
.IB \fR[ -i internal_ip\fR]
.IB \fR[ -e external_ip\fR]
.IB \fR[ -h default_ip[:port]\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ftppr
is FTP gateway service to allow internal users to access external FTP
servers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -I
Inetd mode. Standalone service only.
.TP
.B -d
Daemonize. Detach service from console and run in the background.
.TP
.B -t
Be silenT. Do not log start/stop/accept error records.
.TP
.B -u
Never look for username authentication.
.TP
.B -e
External address. IP address of the interface the proxy should initiate connections
from.
By default, the system will decide which address to use in accordance
with the routing table.
.TP
.B -i
Internal address. IP address the proxy accepts connections to.
By default, connections to any interface are accepted. It\'s usually unsafe.
.TP
.B -h
Default destination. It's used if the target address is not specified by the user.
.TP
.B -p
Port. Port proxy listens for incoming connections. Default is 21.
.TP
.B -l
Log. By default logging is to stdout. If
.I logfile
is specified logging is to file. Under Unix, if
.RI \' @ \'
precedes
.IR logfile ,
syslog is used for logging.
.TP
.B -S
Increase or decrease stack size. You may want to try something like -S8192 if you experience 3proxy
crashes.
.SH CLIENTS
You can use any FTP client, regardless of FTP proxy support. For a client with
FTP proxy support, configure
.I internal_ip
and
.IR port
in the FTP proxy parameters.
For clients without FTP proxy support, use
.I internal_ip
and
.IR port
as the FTP server. The address of the real FTP server must be configured as a part of
the FTP username. The format for the username is
.IR username \fB@ server ,
where
.I server
is the address of the FTP server and
.I username
is the user\'s login on this FTP server. The login itself may contain an \'@\' sign.
Only cleartext authentication is currently supported.
.SH BUGS
Report all bugs to
.BR 3proxy@3proxy.org
.SH SEE ALSO
3proxy(8), proxy(8), pop3p(8), socks(8), tcppm(8), udppm(8), syslogd(8),
.br
https://3proxy.org/
.SH AUTHORS
3proxy is designed by Vladimir 3APA3A Dubrovin
.RI ( 3proxy@3proxy.org )
