.TH icqpr "8" "January 2016" "3proxy 0.8" "Universal proxy server"
.SH NAME
.B icqpr
\- ICQ (AOL OSCAR) proxy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "icqpr " [ -d ]
.IB \fR[ -l \fR[ \fR[ @ \fR] logfile \fR]]
.IB \fR[ -i internal_ip\fR]
.IB \fR[ -e external_ip\fR]
.I local_port remote_host remote_port
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B icqpr
forwards ICQ connections from local to remote ICQ host. Most usual is
.B icqpr 5190 login.icq.com 5190
Also, icqpr adds UIN / AOL screen name as a username. It makes it possible
to control user's access to ICQ/AOL by UIN/screen name (use
.B auth useronly
in 3proxy).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -I
Inetd mode. Standalone service only.
.TP
.B -d
Daemonise. Detach service from console and run in the background.
.TP
.B -t
Be silenT. Do not log start/stop/accept error records.
.TP
.B -e
External address. IP address of interface proxy should initiate connections
from. 
By default system will deside which address to use in accordance
with routing table.
.TP
.B -i
Internal address. IP address proxy accepts connections to.
By default connection to any interface is accepted. It\'s usually unsafe.
.TP
.B -l
Log. By default logging is to stdout. If
.I logfile
is specified logging is to file. Under Unix, if
.RI \' @ \'
preceeds
.IR logfile ,
syslog is used for logging.
.TP
.B -S
Increase or decrease stack size. You may want to try something like -S8192 if you experience 3proxy
crashes.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I local_port
- port icqpr accepts connection
.TP
.I remote_host
- IP address of the host connection is forwarded to
.TP
.I remote_port
- remote port connection is forwarded to
.SH CLIENTS
You can use any ICQ/AOL client where server address configuration is supported
or spoof login server name (e.g. login.icq.com) with IP address of proxy server
via DNS record or hosts file. Transparent redirection is also possible. Use
.I internal_ip
and
.I local_port
as a destination in client application. Connection is forwarded to
.IR remote_host : remote_port
.SH BUGS
Report all bugs to
.BR 3proxy@3proxy.ru
.SH SEE ALSO
3proxy(8), proxy(8), ftppr(8), socks(8), pop3p(8), udppm(8), syslogd(8),
.br
http://3proxy.ru/
.SH AUTHORS
3proxy is designed by Vladimir 3APA3A Dubrovin
.RI ( 3proxy@3proxy.ru )
