.TH pop3p "8" "May 2026" "3proxy 0.9" "Universal proxy server"
.SH NAME
.B pop3p
\- POP3 proxy gateway service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "pop3p " [ -d ]
.IB \fR[ -l \fR[ \fR[ @ \fR] logfile \fR]]
.IB \fR[ -p port\fR]
.IB \fR[ -i internal_ip\fR]
.IB \fR[ -e external_ip\fR]
.IB \fR[ -h default_ip[:port]\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pop3p
is POP3 gateway service to allow internal users to access external POP3
servers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -I
Inetd mode. Standalone service only.
.TP
.B -d
Daemonize. Detach service from console and run in the background.
.TP
.B -t
Be silenT. Do not log start/stop/accept error records.
.TP
.B -u
Never look for username authentication.
.TP
.B -e
External address. IP address of the interface the proxy should initiate connections
from.
By default, the system will decide which address to use in accordance
with the routing table.
.TP
.B \-ni\fIPATH\fR
(Linux only) Switch to the network namespace identified by
.I PATH
before opening the listening socket. The current namespace is saved and restored
immediately after binding, so outgoing connections run in the original namespace
unless
.B \-ne
is also given.
.TP
.B \-ne\fIPATH\fR
(Linux only) Switch to the network namespace identified by
.I PATH
after the listening socket has been bound (and after restoring from
.B \-ni
if applicable). Both options accept any namespace file path
(e.g.\& \fI/var/run/netns/myns\fR or \fI/proc/PID/ns/net\fR)
and require \fBCAP_SYS_ADMIN\fR.
.TP
.B -i
Internal address. IP address the proxy accepts connections to.
By default, connections to any interface are accepted. It\'s usually unsafe.
Unix domain sockets can be specified with
.I -iunix:/path/to/socket
syntax (e.g., -iunix:/var/run/pop3p.sock). On Linux, abstract sockets use
.I -iunix:@socketname
syntax.
.TP
.B -p
Port. Port proxy listens for incoming connections. Default is 110.
.TP
.B -h
Default destination. It's used if the target address is not specified by the user.
.TP
.B -l
Log. By default logging is to stdout. If
.I logfile
is specified logging is to file. Under Unix, if
.RI \' @ \'
precedes
.IR logfile ,
syslog is used for logging.
.TP
.B -S
Increase or decrease stack size. You may want to try something like -S8192 if you experience 3proxy
crashes.
.SH CLIENTS
You can use any MUA (Mail User Agent) with POP3 support. Set the client to use
.I internal_ip
and
.IR port
as a POP3 server. The address of the real POP3 server must be configured as a part of
the POP3 username. The format for the username is
.IR username @ server ,
where
.I server
is the address of the POP3 server and
.I username
is the user\'s login on this POP3 server. The login itself may contain an \'@\' sign.
Only cleartext authentication is supported, because challenge-response
authentication (APOP, CRAM-MD5, etc.) requires a challenge from the server before
we know which server to connect to.
.SH BUGS
Report all bugs to
.BR 3proxy@3proxy.org
.SH SEE ALSO
3proxy(8), ftppr(8), proxy(8), socks(8), tcppm(8), udppm(8), syslogd(8),
.br
https://3proxy.org/
.SH AUTHORS
3proxy is designed by Vladimir Dubrovin <vlad@3proxy.org>
