.TH proxy "8" "January 2016" "3proxy 0.8" "Universal proxy server"
.SH NAME
.B proxy
\- HTTP proxy gateway service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "proxy " [ -d ][ -a ]
.IB \fR[ -l \fR[ \fR[ @ \fR] logfile \fR]]
.IB \fR[ -p port\fR]
.IB \fR[ -i internal_ip\fR]
.IB \fR[ -e external_ip\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B proxy
is HTTP gateway service with HTTPS and FTP over HTTPS support.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -I
Inetd mode. Standalone service only.
.TP
.B -d
Daemonise. Detach service from console and run in the background.
.TP
.B -t
Be silenT. Do not log start/stop/accept error records.
.TP
.B -u
Never ask for username authentication
.TP
.B -e
External address. IP address of interface proxy should initiate connections
from. 
By default system will deside which address to use in accordance
with routing table.
.TP
.B -i
Internal address. IP address proxy accepts connections to.
By default connection to any interface is accepted. It\'s usually unsafe.
.TP
.B -a
Anonymous. Hide information about client.
.TP
.B -a1
Anonymous. Show fake information about client.
.TP
.B -p
Port. Port proxy listens for incoming connections. Default is 3128.
.TP
.B -l
Log. By default logging is to stdout. If
.I logfile
is specified logging is to file. Under Unix, if
.RI \' @ \'
preceeds
.IR logfile ,
syslog is used for logging.
.TP
.B -S
Increase or decrease stack size. You may want to try something like -S8192 if you experience 3proxy
crashes.
.SH CLIENTS
You should use client with HTTP proxy support or configure router to redirect
HTTP traffic to proxy (transparent proxy). Configure client to connect to
.I internal_ip
and
.IR port .
HTTPS support allows to use almost any TCP based protocol. If you need to
limit clients, use 
.BR 3proxy (8)
instead.
.SH BUGS
Report all bugs to
.BR 3proxy@3proxy.ru
.SH SEE ALSO
3proxy(8), ftppr(8), socks(8), pop3p(8), tcppm(8), udppm(8), syslogd(8),
.br
http://3proxy.ru/
.SH AUTHORS
3proxy is designed by Vladimir 3APA3A Dubrovin
.RI ( 3proxy@3proxy.ru )
