.TH socks "8" "January 2016" "3proxy 0.8" "Universal proxy server"
.SH NAME
.B socks
\- SOCKS 4/4.5/5 gateway service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "socks " [ -d ]
.IB \fR[ -l \fR[ \fR[ @ \fR] logfile \fR]]
.IB \fR[ -p port\fR]
.IB \fR[ -i internal_ip\fR]
.IB \fR[ -e external_ip\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B socks
is SOCKS server. It supports SOCKSv4, SOCKSv4.5 (extension to v4 for
server side name resolution) and SOCKSv5. SOCKSv5 specification allows both
outgoing and reverse TCP connections and UDP portmapping.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -I
Inetd mode. Standalone service only.
.TP
.B -d
Daemonise. Detach service from console and run in the background.
.TP
.B -t
Be silenT. Do not log start/stop/accept error records.
.TP
.B -u
Never ask for username authentication
.TP
.B -e
External address. IP address of interface proxy should initiate connections
from. External IP must be specified if you need incoming connections.
By default system will deside which address to use in accordance
with routing table.
.TP
.B -i
Internal address. IP address proxy accepts connections to.
By default connection to any interface is accepted. It\'s usually unsafe.
.TP
.B -p
Port. Port proxy listens for incoming connections. Default is 1080.
.TP
.B -l
Log. By default logging is to stdout. If
.I logfile
is specified logging is to file. Under Unix, if
.RI \' @ \'
preceeds
.IR logfile ,
syslog is used for logging.
.TP
.B -S
Increase or decrease stack size. You may want to try something like -S8192 if you experience 3proxy
crashes.
.SH CLIENTS
You should use client with SOCKS support or use some socksification support
(for example
.I SocksCAP
or
.IR FreeCAP ).
Configure client to use
.I internal_ip
and
.IR port .
SOCKS allows to use almost any application protocol without limitation. This
implementation also allows to open priviledged port on server (if socks has
sufficient privileges). If you need to control access use
.BR 3proxy (8)
instead.
.SH BUGS
Report all bugs to
.BR 3proxy@3proxy.ru
.SH SEE ALSO
3proxy(8), proxy(8), ftppr(8), pop3p(8), tcppm(8), udppm(8), syslogd(8),
.br
http://3proxy.ru/
.SH AUTHORS
3proxy is designed by Vladimir 3APA3A Dubrovin
.RI ( 3proxy@3proxy.ru )
