.TH tlspr "8" "May 2026" "3proxy 0.9" "Universal proxy server"
.SH NAME
.B tlspr
\- SNI proxy gateway service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "tlspr " [ -d ][ -a ]
.IB \fR[ -l \fR[ \fR[ @ \fR] logfile \fR]]
.IB \fR[ -p listening_port\fR]
.IB \fR[ -P destination_port\fR]
.IB \fR[ -c tls_check_level\fR]
.IB \fR[ -i internal_ip\fR]
.IB \fR[ -e external_ip\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tlspr
is an SNI gateway service (destination host is taken from TLS handshake). The destination port must be specified via the -P option (or it may be detected with the Transparent plugin).
tlspr does not support user authentication; use ACLs by client IP or a parent proxy with authentication if access control is required.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -I
Inetd mode. Standalone service only.
.TP
.B -d
Daemonize. Detach service from console and run in the background.
.TP
.B -t
Be silenT. Do not log start/stop/accept error records.
.TP
.B -u
Never ask for username authentication
.TP
.B -e
External address. IP address of the interface the proxy should initiate connections
from.
By default, the system will decide which address to use in accordance
with the routing table.
.TP
.B \-ni\fIPATH\fR
(Linux only) Switch to the network namespace identified by
.I PATH
before opening the listening socket. The current namespace is saved and restored
immediately after binding, so outgoing connections run in the original namespace
unless
.B \-ne
is also given.
.TP
.B \-ne\fIPATH\fR
(Linux only) Switch to the network namespace identified by
.I PATH
after the listening socket has been bound (and after restoring from
.B \-ni
if applicable). Both options accept any namespace file path
(e.g.\& \fI/var/run/netns/myns\fR or \fI/proc/PID/ns/net\fR)
and require \fBCAP_SYS_ADMIN\fR.
.TP
.B -i
Internal address. IP address the proxy accepts connections to.
By default, connections to any interface are accepted. It\'s usually unsafe.
Unix domain sockets can be specified with
.I -iunix:/path/to/socket
syntax (e.g., -iunix:/var/run/tlspr.sock). On Linux, abstract sockets use
.I -iunix:@socketname
syntax.
.TP
.B -a
Anonymous. Hide information about client.
.TP
.B -a1
Anonymous. Show fake information about client.
.TP
.B -p
listening_port. Port proxy listens for incoming connections. Default is 1443.
.TP
.B -P
destination_port. Port to establish outgoing connections. Required unless the Transparent plugin is used, because the TLS handshake does not contain port information. Default is 443.
.TP
.B -c
TLS_CHECK_LEVEL. 0 (default) - allow non-TLS traffic to pass, 1 - require TLS, only check client HELLO packet, 2 - require TLS, check both client and server HELLO, 3 - require TLS, check that the server sends a certificate (not compatible with TLS 1.3), 4 - require mutual TLS, check that the server sends a certificate request and the client sends a certificate (not compatible with TLS 1.3)
.TP
.B -s
Split the TLS Client HELLO packet across multiple TCP segments to make SNI-based DPI detection harder. An optional numeric value can follow (e.g. \fB-s1\fR) to control the splitting behaviour.
.TP
.B -Ximap | -Xpop3 | -Xsmtp
STARTTLS mode for the given protocol. The proxy speaks the plaintext protocol
with the client (greeting, capability advertisement with STARTTLS only, STARTTLS
command), then, after the client issues STARTTLS and sends a TLS Client HELLO,
connects to the destination taken from SNI (default port 143/110/587), performs
STARTTLS negotiation with the destination server and transparently passes TLS
traffic. If the destination server does not support STARTTLS, the TLS handshake
with the client fails.
.TP
.B -l
Log. By default logging is to stdout. If
.I logfile
is specified logging is to file. Under Unix, if
.RI \' @ \'
precedes
.IR logfile ,
syslog is used for logging.
.TP
.B -S
Increase or decrease stack size. You may want to try something like -S8192 if you experience 3proxy
crashes.
.SH CLIENTS
You should use a client with TLS support or configure a router to redirect
TLS traffic to the proxy (transparent proxy). Configure the client to connect to
.I internal_ip
and
.IR port .
If you need to limit clients, use
.BR 3proxy (8)
instead.
.SH BUGS
Report all bugs to
.BR 3proxy@3proxy.org
.SH SEE ALSO
3proxy(8), ftppr(8), proxy(8), socks(8), pop3p(8), smtpp(8), tcppm(8), udppm(8), syslogd(8),
.br
https://3proxy.org/
.SH AUTHORS
3proxy is designed by Vladimir Dubrovin <vlad@3proxy.org>
