.TH udppm "8" "May 2026" "3proxy 0.9" "Universal proxy server"
.SH NAME
.B udppm
\- UDP port mapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "udppm " [ -ds ]
.IB \fR[ -l \fR[ \fR[ @ \fR] logfile \fR]]
.IB \fR[ -i internal_ip\fR]
.IB \fR[ -e external_ip\fR]
.I local_port remote_host remote_port
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B udppm
forwards datagrams from local to remote UDP port
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -I
Inetd mode. Standalone service only.
.TP
.B -d
Daemonize. Detach service from console and run in the background.
.TP
.B -t
Be silenT. Do not log start/stop/accept error records.
.TP
.B -e
External address. IP address of the interface the proxy should initiate datagrams
from.
By default, the system will decide which address to use in accordance
with the routing table.
.TP
.B \-ni\fIPATH\fR
(Linux only) Switch to the network namespace identified by
.I PATH
before opening the listening socket. The current namespace is saved and restored
immediately after binding, so outgoing connections run in the original namespace
unless
.B \-ne
is also given.
.TP
.B \-ne\fIPATH\fR
(Linux only) Switch to the network namespace identified by
.I PATH
after the listening socket has been bound (and after restoring from
.B \-ni
if applicable). Both options accept any namespace file path
(e.g.\& \fI/var/run/netns/myns\fR or \fI/proc/PID/ns/net\fR)
and require \fBCAP_SYS_ADMIN\fR.
.TP
.B -i
Internal address. IP address the proxy accepts datagrams to.
By default, connections to any interface are accepted. It\'s usually unsafe.
.TP
.B -l
Log. By default logging is to stdout. If
.I logfile
is specified logging is to file. Under Unix, if
.RI \' @ \'
precedes
.IR logfile ,
syslog is used for logging.
.TP
.B -s
Single packet. By default, only one client can use the udppm service, but
if -s is specified, only one packet will be forwarded between client and server.
This allows the service to be shared between multiple clients for single-packet services
(for example, name lookups).
.TP
.B -S
Increase or decrease stack size. You may want to try something like -S8192 if you experience 3proxy
crashes.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I local_port
- port udppm accepts datagrams on
.TP
.I remote_host
- IP address of the host datagrams are forwarded to
.TP
.I remote_port
- remote port datagrams are forwarded to
.SH CLIENTS
Any UDP-based application can be used as a client. Use
.I internal_ip
and
.I local_port
as the destination in the client application. All datagrams are forwarded to
.IR remote_host : remote_port
.SH BUGS
Report all bugs to
.BR 3proxy@3proxy.org
.SH SEE ALSO
3proxy(8), proxy(8), ftppr(8), socks(8), pop3p(8), udppm(8), syslogd(8),
.br
https://3proxy.org/
.SH AUTHORS
3proxy is designed by Vladimir Dubrovin <vlad@3proxy.org>
